Partition considerations for droid4-kexecboot

Because the bootloader is locked on droid 4, most eMMC partitions cannot
be used and contain signed images checked by the Motorola bootloader.

Overwriting the the Motorola bootloader partitions on the eMMC will result
in a bricked device, so be cafeful. Below we only consider partitions
that are known to be recoverable with fastboot and a USB cable.

Also the micro-SD card formatting has few considerations, so please read
this document before install.


1. Bootloader reserved eMMC partitions on droid 4

The following eMMC partitions are reserved for droid4-kexecboot use:

NAME		PARTITION	NOTES
mmcblk1p8	utags		512K device specific custom tags
mmcblk1p9	logo.bin	2M log partition, can be changed
mmcblk1p23	bpsw		4M empty, droid4-kexecboot rootfs
mmcblk1p22	preinstall	608M ext3 tutorials, usable as auxdata

The utags and bpsw partitions are always used by droid4-kexecboot
where the utags partition configures the stock kernel to boot to the
droid4-kexecboot rootfs on the bpsw partition.

The logo partition image is shown by the Motorola bootloader that runs
when the device is powered on, and can be modified.

The preinstall partition is optionally needed by droid4-kexecboot for
SafeStrap recovery image, and stock WLAN modules as the bpsw partition is
too small, and the mmcblk1p20 system partition may have an updated Android
image such as LineageOS 14.1 installed on it. As the SafeStrap recovery
and the stock kernel WLAN modules only take some of the available space
for the mmcblk1p22 preinstall partition, it can also be shared with Linux
distros as needed. The droid4-kexecboot only needs to place data into
directories lib/modules and boot on the mmcblk1p22 preinstall partition.

The suggested formatting for mmcblk1p22 preinstall is ext4 using flags
mkfs.ext4 -O^metadata_csum,^64bit so it's readable also for the stock
Android kernel used by droid4-kexecboot.


2. Available eMMC partitions for custom use

The following partitions are available for custom Android or Linux
distro installs:

NAME		PARTITION	NOTES
mmcblk1p20	system		640M ext3, stock Android system
mmcblk1p23	webtop		1.3G ext3 webtop
mmcblk1p25	emstorage	8G vfat /sdcard

Updated Android such as LineageOS 14.1 can be installed over the old
stock Android install to mmcblk1p20 system partition as long as the
partition format stays as ext3. Note that mmcblk1p20 system is not big
enough for LinageOS if gapps are installed. It works fine with LineageOS
without gapps though.

If gapps are needed, mmcblk1p23 webtop can be used for LineageOS with
gapps as it's bigger than the mmcblk1p20 system partition. For using
the mmcblk1p23 webtop for LineageOS, it needs to be formatted as ext3.

If using mmcblk1p23 webtop partition as the Android "altpart" system
partition, it needs to be formatted as ext3 currently as specified in
the initramfs fstab.mapphone_cdma file for /system.

If gapps are not needed, mmcblk1p23 webtop can be formatted as ext4 for
Linux distro use. Note that if you want mmcblk1p23 webtop to be readable
for Android installs, it needs to be formatted using options mkfs.ext4
-O^metadata_csum,^64bit.

Note that installing Android to both mmcblk1p20 system and mmcblk1p23
webtop does not seem to play along nicely for gapps at least because of
the shared cache and data partitions.

The mmcblk1p25 emstorage partition is typically used as vfat for Android
installs. It can be optionally used also for Linux distros and reformatted
as ext4. Some people might prefer to use mmcblk1p25 emstorage as Linux
rootfs as it has 8 data lines connected instead of 4 compared to micro-SD
cards making it potentially faster. And it allows using the micro-SD
card as a hot pluggable device.

Note that reformatting mmcblk1p25 emstorage as ext4 might cause some
issues for the Android installs. If you want Android to be able to access
mmcblk1p25 emstorage partition, it needs to be formatted using options
mkfs.ext4 -O^metadata_csum,^64bit. If you want to have Android be able
to use mmcblk1p25 emstorage, it needs to have also the basic directory
structure created for it as on the vfat formatted mmcblk1p25 emstorage.

If uncertain, do not reformat mmcblk1p25 emstorage as ext4 and use Linux
distros on the micro-SD card.

For more information about installing LineageOS, see file INSTALL.


3. Partition considerations for micro-SD cards

The micro-SD card can have one or more partitions. For droid4-kexecboot to
be able to configuration and the kernel to boot from the micro-SD card,
it's partitions need to be formatted with flags suitable for the stock
Kernel used by droid4-kexecboot.

For partitions that you want to make readable for the stock Android
kernel, please use options mkfs.ext4 -O^metadata_csum,^64bit. If you
want to make the whole micro-SD card readable for Android, you need to
format micro-SD card partition mmcblk0p1 with these options.

If you prefer to have the Linux rootfs not readable for Android, you can
create a separate boot partition mmcblk0p1 for 128MB and format it with
mkfs.ext4 -O^metadata_csum,^64bit and place boot directory with kernel
files there. And then create mmcblk0p2 and possibly other partitions
too as desired for the Linux distro to use.
